---
id: r8
title: Release 8
sidebar_label: Release 8
description: Release 8 features.
keywords:
  - docs
  - privado id
  - holder
  - issuer
  - verifier
  - web wallet
  - wallet sdk
  - release 8
---

## Issuer Node (v3.0.0)
Github tag: https://github.com/0xPolygonID/issuer-node/releases/tag/v3.0.0

1. Unification and Enhancement of the APIs (v2)
2. Added multichain support 
3. Streamlined Credential Issuance
4. Improvements to credential creation, QR code and link responses, error handling, and link workflows.
5. New status options, pagination, and identity display improvements.

## Web Wallet

1. New dashboard with a landing page, credential management screens, filtering options, and improved navigation.
2. Credential issuance now enables direct issuance within the web wallet and supports embedded credentials.
3. Multi-query and cross-chain verification support.
4. Enhanced document management, protocol message handling, and resolver reliability.
5. Improved QR code performance, smart contract validation, and profile nonce handling for error reduction.
6. Added new universal link format for integration. Prior format is deprecated and support will be removed after the next release.

## Mobile Wallet App
The new Privado ID Wallet App is live.

Docs: https://docs.privado.id/docs/category/privado-id-wallet-app

1. Added cross-chain verification support.
2. Enabled encrypted storage of credentials in remote cloud storage.
3. Identity creation from crypto wallet addresses.
4. Local identity and account with feature to export private key. 
5. Credential issuance via embedded issuers.
6. Added support for Universal links

## Wallet SDK (v2.3.3 to v2.3.5)
Github releases: https://github.com/0xPolygonID/polygonid-flutter-sdk/releases

1. Added readable exceptions in the console.
2. Circuit download in background
3. Updated circuit library (clib)
4. Auth claim support.

## js-sdk (v1.15.3 to v1.21.1)
Github releases: https://github.com/0xPolygonID/js-sdk/releases

1. Support for submitZKPResponseV2 (cross-chain, multiple proofs in one tx)
2. Added state transition retry feature.
3. Enhanced messaging with required message bodies, improved message types, and adjustments to senderDid and JSON object handling.
4. Fixed credential context order, validation for value array size, and chain configuration handling.
5. Resolved issues with claim revocation checks on-chain, metadata support, and replaced auth BJJ with alternative status options.

## iden3comm

1. New messages for Payment Rails 
2. Support of default unpacker for zkp 
3. Alignment implementation in golang and sdk with specification 
4. Support for latest core libraries

## did-iden3-driver 

1. Support new query param ‘signature’  with algorithm EthereumEip712Signature2021
2. Setup of resolver.privado.id as trusted resolver for crosschain data

## js-iden3-core / go-iden3-core

1. Support new networks natively : Ethereum, Ethereum Sepolia, Polygon zkEVM, Polygon zkEVM Cardona testnet, Privado Mainnet, Linea Mainnet, Linea Sepolia

## Query Builder

1. Added support for Universal links




